Background :

Heroes of might and magic 3 is one of the first games I have ever played. The game became
very popular and still is today, more than 20 years after release.
What I particularly enjoyed with this game is the variety of viable strategies, the good
balance between the factions (except for "Conflux" maybe) and the relatively good behaviour
of the AI.
One of the maps I played the most is "Realm of Chaos" and I have always wondered if this 
map was balanced. I have also always considered the "town portal" (TP) spell as imbalanced. 
Getting it meaning guaranteed victory. But does it make the game duration quicker ?
Now that I have some statistics tools in my hands, I can try to answer these questions.

Methodology :

1) Every game is played in the difficulty level "Expert".

2) Every game is played on the map called "Realm of Chaos".

3) Each race is played twice, in the same following order : 
(tower>castle>rampart>dungeon>stronghold>fortress>inferno>necropolis)
The reason behind this is to reduce the effect of learning on the game duration for
the different factions. If I had played my last 10 games only with necropolis, the learning
factor might have come in and reduced the game duration compared to my first 10 games with
tower.

4) I tried to play with the same playstyle and using the same tactics. I might have 
rushed the last 10-20 games, but since it did not affect the results for a specific faction,
I guess it did not have much effect on my hypotheses. It is important to say that my
playstyle for stronghold was definitely different. By maximizing the amount of ressources 
collected, it is possible to acquire behemots and a castle by the end of
week 1. I believe it is only possible with this race with this difficulty level on this map.

5) In the cases where I acquired TP very late in the game course, I wrote down in the 
Excel file that I did not have it.

Hypotheses :

1) Null hypothesis nr 1 : the selected faction has no effect on game duration.
Alternative hypothesis nr 1 : the selected faction has an effect on game duration.

2) Null hypothesis nr 2 : having TP in the spell book has no effect on game duration.
Alternative hypothesis nr 1 : having TP in the spell book reduces the game duration.

I have several ways of testing these hypotheses. The most common ones would be to design
a test statistic, making hypotheses about the distributions, etc. I decided to first
visualize the data through histograms and boxplots, then compare the variance for the
different variables, and use linear regression to keep or reject the hypothesis.

The reason I do it this way is because I study a lot, work a little and I have therefore 
limited time to conduct this project.

Results :

1) From the histogram, it is noticeable that the game durations does not look normally
 distributed. This is a relatively unexpected result and might be a problem when a 
 linear regression is performed...

2) The game durations sorted by faction show that it was particularly low for Stronghold.
From the boxplot, we can also see that the variance in game durations for Tower is very
limited.

3) the game durations are shorter and show less variations with TP is acquired.

4) the qq-plot for the values of GD does not look too bad so I decide to continue with
the idea of linear regression.

5) From the regression summary, it is noticeable that when Stronghold is put as the
reference variable, then all the regression coefficients affected to the other factions
are significant (with maybe the exception of the coefficient for Tower). Which means that
playing with the faction Stronghold does seem to reduce the game duration. The coefficient
affected to the acquisition of TP is negative, indicating that TP might indeed reduce 
game duration aswell. But it has a rather high P-value, so it might here indicate that 
the difference with not having TP is not statistically sigificant.
The R^2 value is rather low : around 0,25. The adjusted R^2 value is even lower, but
it might just be because each faction is considered as a variable. 
Overall, the model does not seem to be able to explain much of the variation in the data.

6) Using the function "drop1", We get a very low value for Pr(>F) which indicates that
Faction is a significant variable.

7) The various plots for the residuals do not seem too bad, but my lack of experience
with it limit the analysis of these plots.